A box plot, which in our case is really a box and whisker plot,
is the visualization of statistical spread in a data set of values.
A traditional box plot is built using the five numbers summary.
The five numbers summary consists of five values.
The maximum, the minimum, the 1st quartile,
the 2nd quartile, also called the median,
and the 3rd quartile.
If we have a list of numbers sorted and divided as
evenly as possible into fourths, we have the quartiles of data.
Where we make a box and whisker plot,
the maximum becomes the tip of
the upper whisker and the minimum becomes the tip of the lower whisker.
The box represents the middle half of the data with a line where the median is.
Excel will give us a bonus six number in the summary
by placing an X at the mean or average value of the set.
Creating a box plot in Windows Excel 2016 is as easy as any other chart.
Select columns of data.
Click insert in recommended charts then click the box in whisker chart.
Remember that a box plot represents statistics for a single list of numbers.
So, each list you select will be represented by its own box plot.
The box plot now visually gives a sense of the spread of the value list.
I'll just adjust the range so that I can see the plots a little better.
And, give the chart a title.